---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E5: Reflecting on Assignment 2"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2023-12-05
published: true
labels:
  - ITM352
---

## 1. Introduction to Assignment 2: Upgrading your e-Commerce Website
In Assignment 2, our task was to enhance an e-commerce website, focusing on user personalization and security. The core requirement was to enable user registration and login, ensuring that personalization features, like greeting users by name and personalizing invoices, were implemented. This assignment built upon our previous work in Assignment 1 but introduced new complexities such as handling user data and implementing security measures to protect this data. Read more about Assignment 2 <a href="https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/150.Assignment2/experience-Assignment2.html">here</a>

## 2. What I Learned
This assignment was a deep dive into web application development, especially in user data management and security. I learned how to securely handle user registration and login processes, ensuring data persistence and security. Managing user sessions without relying on cookies or session management tools was particularly challenging and educational.

## 3. Teamwork and Contribution
I did not work with a partner on this assignment, so it was 100% my work.

## 4. Seeking Help
Whenever I encountered challenges, especially with front-end design and form validation, I sought help through online forums and documentation. For complex issues, I consulted the past notes and screencasts from this course. This approach was instrumental in overcoming obstacles related to responsive design and user input validation.

## 5. Comparison with Assignment 1
Unlike Assignment 1, which was more about laying the foundation of a web application, Assignment 2 required a more advanced approach. It demanded an understanding of user authentication, data storage, and creating a personalized user experience. The emphasis on security and data handling was a significant step up from the basic web design of the first assignment.

## 6. Time Allocation
- Thinking about how to implement features: 30%
- Writing code (excluding testing): 40%
- Testing and debugging: 30%
This distribution reflects the complexity of the project, requiring careful planning, extensive coding, and rigorous testing to ensure functionality and security.

## 7. Project's Strengths and Weaknesses
My project's strength ended up being in its user interface design, which is intuitive and user-friendly. However, a challenge I faced was ensuring security without the use of sessions or cookies, which required innovative thinking and alternative approaches.

## 8. What I Would Do Differently
If I could redo the assignment, I would spend more time on understanding and implementing advanced security measures. Additionally, I'd invest in learning more about responsive web design to enhance user experience on different devices.
